David asks, what do I remember about the Faith and Spirituality experienced on the Ranch.  This is a loaded question for me. The Ranch was my safe place, my refuge from a scary, lonely world.  Partly this sense of refuge was true because of the Faith filled atmosphere that existed there.

What do I remember?  The Ranch was G’ma and G’pa and David in a setting of trees, fields, and the Mountain.  Soft rain, smell of hay, and an apple tree.  A fire warmed kitchen and living room with gussy the goose grease quilt and a soft couch.  An assuredness in what was right and important, sprinkled with love.

The spirit that filled this space was G’ma’s religious belief.   G’pa’s was present and believed, but G’mas was the all-encompassing power. G’pa made everything work, G’ma was the voice of local reality.

Conversation, meals, and social life all centered around G’mas faith view.  It wasn’t tied to one congregation.  It was linked to her view of Religion, which I experienced as a Christian fundamentalist, four square gospel faith.  A belief in a personal relationship with Jesus and a commissioning to spread this religious connection.  G’ma had no evident question in her mind about what she believed or taught.  It was all about a personal connection to Jesus, the bible and her beliefs.  Jesus actually would visit her.  She believed in the Spirit as a force from Jesus alive and acting in our lives.  Everything was possible if you accepted Jesus into your heart and your life.  The preachers, including G’ma explained what you should believe, but you had a lot of personal space to do your own interpretation of the words in the bible and the spirit that moved you.  Many wonderful souls inhabited this world.  Br. Rorbaugh, Sister Coop etc.  They were caring and confident people who shared their love of Jesus and life freely.

This deep faith was acted out in many ways.  Formal and informal prayers off and on during the day.  Regular worship service attendance.  I remember regularly going to church Wednesday Night, Friday night and of course Sunday morning.  There would be other prayer meetings sprinkled in.

These Church experiences for me were warm and supportive. At some adult evening services David and I would lay in the bed of the pickup truck on a mattress with a blanket.  Beautiful night with lights from the church, sing and the stars in the Washington sky. A sense of security and faith.  Often there were communal meals and gatherings.  All the attendees of the church supported each other as a community.  You were truly part of a believing community.  The Pastor was a source of teaching and support, but so too was G’ma.  The true faith was lived out in the daily connections and support of each other.  The borrowing of a tractors; a place of food for a suffering family; a phone call.

Music was a strong connection to this religious experience.  To this day a number of the old hymns can bring tears to my eyes.  “What a Friend we have in Jesus”, “Amazing grace” etc.  As a lonely, frightened child all this warmth and connection was heaven to me.
As time went by and as I got older I found I could gain acceptance and praise for my participation in the activities and beliefs of this community of faith.  I was respected and supported in my connecting with this warm adult community.  David, I don’t remember you needing or seeking this connection.  I remember you participating only as required.  I was a starving a person, that found his way into a banquet hall.  You seemed to be settled in your own world and didn’t need G’mas or anyone else’s affirmation

I did find myself making a connection to G’mas God.  I had spiritual experiences:  prayers seemingly answered, emotion moments at prayer meetings and someone to pray to.  In time and after my Catholic experience under my mother’s stewardship I learned to question the underpinnings of G’mas beliefs but to this day I miss the community and fellowship.  Today my sense of spiritual life in this world comes out of my Pentecostal experiences with G’ma and my more recent belief in connectivity of all things.

Yes as life experiences flooded in I learned to question the theology that G’ma believed.  Masters level Religious education and Vatican II caused me to question all the basic Christian views of theistic reality.  But, the spiritual connection to a faith community and its cultural impact on my life was miraculous.  It gave me support and sustained me for years.  Loosing some of the foundations sent me adrift and less secure.  I now live with no firm beliefs, but a hang on to a spiritual life connecting me to all creation and coming out of the loving faith community brought to me by G’ma. I still attend a Christian Church on a regular basis and talk to Jesus, but I have moved to more of a Buddhist view of creation and interactivity and connection.  I am not sure a faith religion and its cultural support can be replaced by a secular situation.  I know dogmatic religious views can be horribly destructive, but it also can be wonderful.


 