I  know I cant tell you what a Christian is -- I believe its a lifetime of being one.
I'm sure there's an explanation in Webster, but in my case I was a very lonely little girl with two broken homes by 3rd grade. No adult conversation, no support or counsel or direction.

My mother sent me every Sunday to Sunday school -- I recall it was Methodist and then Baptist.

I remember mother taught me the "Our Father" prayer, which she had me say every night at bedtime.
 
The summer before fourth grade, I was sent to a week at Vacation Bible school at Lake  Sammamish in Seattle. I remember I had a wonderful time, and the last night they had all the kids gathered to the alter as group I vividly remember I gave my heart and life to God -- at the ripe innocent age of 11. Mother said I ran all the way down the street yelling "I'm saved! I'm saved!"
 
But I do know from that young age independently forward, I was a Christian and I've always believed in God -- His Son Jesus, and the Holy spirit -- and I believe in the Bible and the Ten Commandments.

Fortunately it was in the nick of time, as when I returned from camp, my life changed drastically: Once again my home was broken, but this time my life turned very dark.

For four years I was beaten and abused by mother's new husband -- she was beaten often -- my schools and neighborhood changed 4 times. If I had not had the love and peace and stability of the lord in my young heart, I don't know how I would have turned out.
It was by the grace of God I was finally removed to live with my grandma on the ranch.
Her radical religion was annoying, but didn't hurt me at all.

I have prayed every single day. I don't ask for anything in particular: I pray to feel safe; I pray for help and strength; I pray for guidance; but I feel God's presence in my heart always, and I'm never alone.

Mother gave my custody to my dad and I moved in with his family at 15 years old, so I could have a normal teenage life. My dads family were good Lutherans.
 
I have forgiven everyone who has hurt me because that's what God has asked us to do. I try to live my life the way God expects us to.
 
I have made many  "not so "Christian" mistakes" over my lifetime, but there were two BIG sins that I had to take myself alone and ask for forgiveness and I was forgiven, and I  will never make that choice again.
 
I cant understand how a person can live their life day in and day out without the peace and love and strength and guidance from God in their lives?
 
I don't know if this is what you were asking, but this is what I came up with.

Thank you for your interest
